paper/paper1/referee_report.md, before:

Dear referee and editor,

Thank you for the useful review--we believe we have addressed all comments in this revised version, making the paper much stronger overall.  We followed the AASTEX "track changes" protocol, so all changes should appear in **boldface** in the revised PDF.  Here we summarize each change, with the original review content prefaced with the `>` symbol:

> 1. You've extensively discussed the relative velocities of the gas, planet, and star, but I'm not entirely satisfied that the explanation is consistent. Figure 14 in particular suggests that gas ought to be redshifted near transit, but we don't observe that. Do we know why that is? Also, not included in Fig. 14 (but perhaps it should be) is the trajectory of the gas being bent by the Coriolis effect until it is headed back outwards. This could explain why the gas gradually blueshifts as you move away from the planet (I think that was what you were getting at(?); see point 3)



> 2. I don't think you've mentioned it, but the orbital evolution of this system is of great interest. Whether by RLO or XUV mass-loss, the asymmetric tail of the planet will drive up the planet's semimajor axis. This is discussed for the RLO case by Valsecci et al. 2014 & 2015, and I think it bears mentioning here. It may even be that the present rate of mass loss could not have occurred over the planet's lifetime, as it would no longer be at such a close semi-major axis.

We had contemplated (but did not include in the submitted paper) the prospect of searching for TTVs in the TESS data-- a non-detection could still provide constraints on extreme mass loss scenarios.  On the theory side, we thought that the details of the specific angular momentum loss would alter the TTVs we may expect, and so fully interpreting TTV data may need an MHD simulation.  
In response to your report, we prepended a section to the discussion "Prospect for orbital evolution".  Here we added the references to Valsecchi et al. 2014 & 2015 (thank you), and describe a coarse constraint on P-dot from the circa 2013 ground-based Period estimate and the circa 2020 TESS estimate.

> 3. Line 816, "The gas increasingly experiences the star's Keplerian potential past the Roche lobe, accelerating in the direction of orbital motion, +x" The first part of this sentence is true, but to my eye it's not a great way to explain the prograde acceleration. In the rotating frame, the coriolis effect causes the inward-moving gas to advance ahead of the planet. In the inertial frame, the gas is launched onto an orbit with a smaller periapse than the planet, and so runs ahead. Elsewhere you say Keplerian shear, which is better, but I still feel like this is a roundabout way to explain things. Still, if you prefer your existing explanation, you need only change this sentence to mention shear.

We prefer your explanation and have replaced the quoted text the revised sentences.  The resulting paragraph is much clearer.

> 4. Inspection of Fig. 10 seems to indicate a faint trailing tail in the blue-shifted range (0.1 phase, ~10831 Angstroms). I take it you've concluded that this is not statistically significant?

We briefly note this feature in Section 3.5 and find it to be statistically significant.  Although it appears weak in Figure 10, it is robustly detected in MCMC fits in Figure 11, where the accelerating blueshift is conspicuous. Such a  pattern is consistent with a lower total mass of material (compared to the leading tail) accelerated by the stellar wind.  Hypothetically, constraints on the impulse by the stellar wind could be worked out based on these observations, but we do not attempt to model such effects.

> 5. As I understand it, the Ohmic dissipation approach to mass loss involves inflating the planet until Roche lobe overflow occurs. If that is the cause of the observed mass loss, it prescribes a particular mass for the planet such that its hill radius is equal to its radius. You mention this in Section 5.4, but I feel like it should be more prominent as a prediction of the RLO hypothesis. You should also calculate the required mass to evaluate how consistent it is with observations.

Well put.  We have added an opening paragraph to Section 5.2 explaining this scenario, and revise the discussion in Section 5.4.


> 4. In the right panel of Fig. 16, you must be assuming an XUV flux (or XUV luminosity and semi-major axis). Would you put that in the caption somewhere?
a. Also, on the off chance you care, the reason the dotted line and the mass loss rate don't line up is because it plots a line of constant mass-loss rate, not timescale (a factor of M_planet). I avoided timescales as I worried that the positive-feedback makes them misleading, but perhaps it's helpful here for comparison with Ohmic dissipation predictions.

Indeed we used a fixed "HAT-P-67b-like" XUV to construct Fig. 16.  We state this value in the figure caption, and add the caveat that individual systems will show significant scatter from this heatmap surface, depending on their received XUV flux.  The clarification on the iso-density line was helpful, and I noted it in the text too.  

> 5. "In particular, heavy elements would easily leak into the planetary wind, yielding possibly many observable metal lines in the UV." While true, I don't think this is much different from XUV-driven mass loss, which also carries out any heavy elements that are present in the planet's upper atmosphere.

Agreed, this distinction as written appears more mild than initially proposed. We revised the text to clarify that there should be a measurable enhancement in metal lines in the the RLO limit, above-and-beyond what we may expect from XUV-driven escape alone.  The purported enhancement may be somewhat speculative since the capability to test such a hypothesis does not appear feasible with current theory or observations.  The main motivation to keep this somewhat speculative paragraph is to encourage the risky business of observing metal line tracers that may otherwise be projected as non-detections, by providing a qualitative prediction.

> 6. Line 1143: absurdly minor nitpick: I think plages is pluralized with an unpronounced 's'.
Corrected!

Commit message:

Revise Figure 14, related to Issue #45

paper/paper1/referee_report.md, after:

Dear referee and editor,

Thank you for the useful review--we believe we have addressed all comments in this revised version, making the paper much stronger overall.  We followed the AASTEX "track changes" protocol, so all changes should appear in **boldface** in the revised PDF.  Here we summarize each change, with the original review content prefaced with the `>` symbol:

> 1. You've extensively discussed the relative velocities of the gas, planet, and star, but I'm not entirely satisfied that the explanation is consistent. Figure 14 in particular suggests that gas ought to be redshifted near transit, but we don't observe that. Do we know why that is? Also, not included in Fig. 14 (but perhaps it should be) is the trajectory of the gas being bent by the Coriolis effect until it is headed back outwards. This could explain why the gas gradually blueshifts as you move away from the planet (I think that was what you were getting at(?); see point 3)

Agreed here-- Figure 14 was misleading as it was currently illustrated.  We have overhauled Figure 14 in several ways.  First, a conceivable path of mass loss is indicated in an overview of the top-down view of the orbital plane.  The previous Figure 14 then becomes an inset.  We have updated the inset to more agressively illustrate the Keplerian orbital shear.  Finally we have completely turned off the nightside mass loss arrows, since the point of the figure is to emphasize the daysize mass loss.  


> 2. I don't think you've mentioned it, but the orbital evolution of this system is of great interest. Whether by RLO or XUV mass-loss, the asymmetric tail of the planet will drive up the planet's semimajor axis. This is discussed for the RLO case by Valsecci et al. 2014 & 2015, and I think it bears mentioning here. It may even be that the present rate of mass loss could not have occurred over the planet's lifetime, as it would no longer be at such a close semi-major axis.

We had contemplated (but did not include in the submitted paper) the prospect of searching for TTVs in the TESS data-- a non-detection could still provide constraints on extreme mass loss scenarios.  On the theory side, we thought that the details of the specific angular momentum loss would alter the TTVs we may expect, and so fully interpreting TTV data may need an MHD simulation.  
In response to your report, we prepended a section to the discussion "Prospect for orbital evolution".  Here we added the references to Valsecchi et al. 2014 & 2015 (thank you), and describe a coarse constraint on P-dot from the circa 2013 ground-based Period estimate and the circa 2020 TESS estimate.

> 3. Line 816, "The gas increasingly experiences the star's Keplerian potential past the Roche lobe, accelerating in the direction of orbital motion, +x" The first part of this sentence is true, but to my eye it's not a great way to explain the prograde acceleration. In the rotating frame, the coriolis effect causes the inward-moving gas to advance ahead of the planet. In the inertial frame, the gas is launched onto an orbit with a smaller periapse than the planet, and so runs ahead. Elsewhere you say Keplerian shear, which is better, but I still feel like this is a roundabout way to explain things. Still, if you prefer your existing explanation, you need only change this sentence to mention shear.

We prefer your explanation and have replaced the quoted text the revised sentences.  The resulting paragraph is much clearer.

> 4. Inspection of Fig. 10 seems to indicate a faint trailing tail in the blue-shifted range (0.1 phase, ~10831 Angstroms). I take it you've concluded that this is not statistically significant?

We briefly note this feature in Section 3.5 and find it to be statistically significant.  Although it appears weak in Figure 10, it is robustly detected in MCMC fits in Figure 11, where the accelerating blueshift is conspicuous. Such a  pattern is consistent with a lower total mass of material (compared to the leading tail) accelerated by the stellar wind.  Hypothetically, constraints on the impulse by the stellar wind could be worked out based on these observations, but we do not attempt to model such effects.

> 5. As I understand it, the Ohmic dissipation approach to mass loss involves inflating the planet until Roche lobe overflow occurs. If that is the cause of the observed mass loss, it prescribes a particular mass for the planet such that its hill radius is equal to its radius. You mention this in Section 5.4, but I feel like it should be more prominent as a prediction of the RLO hypothesis. You should also calculate the required mass to evaluate how consistent it is with observations.

Well put.  We have added an opening paragraph to Section 5.2 explaining this scenario, and revise the discussion in Section 5.4.


> 4. In the right panel of Fig. 16, you must be assuming an XUV flux (or XUV luminosity and semi-major axis). Would you put that in the caption somewhere?
a. Also, on the off chance you care, the reason the dotted line and the mass loss rate don't line up is because it plots a line of constant mass-loss rate, not timescale (a factor of M_planet). I avoided timescales as I worried that the positive-feedback makes them misleading, but perhaps it's helpful here for comparison with Ohmic dissipation predictions.

Indeed we used a fixed "HAT-P-67b-like" XUV to construct Fig. 16.  We state this value in the figure caption, and add the caveat that individual systems will show significant scatter from this heatmap surface, depending on their received XUV flux.  The clarification on the iso-density line was helpful, and I noted it in the text too.  

> 5. "In particular, heavy elements would easily leak into the planetary wind, yielding possibly many observable metal lines in the UV." While true, I don't think this is much different from XUV-driven mass loss, which also carries out any heavy elements that are present in the planet's upper atmosphere.

Agreed, this distinction as written appears more mild than initially proposed. We revised the text to clarify that there should be a measurable enhancement in metal lines in the the RLO limit, above-and-beyond what we may expect from XUV-driven escape alone.  The purported enhancement may be somewhat speculative since the capability to test such a hypothesis does not appear feasible with current theory or observations.  The main motivation to keep this somewhat speculative paragraph is to encourage the risky business of observing metal line tracers that may otherwise be projected as non-detections, by providing a qualitative prediction.

> 6. Line 1143: absurdly minor nitpick: I think plages is pluralized with an unpronounced 's'.
Corrected!
